# Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis-Project

# Abstract
Investigation of open data from internet-based expressions and opinions could yield fascinating outcomes and bits of knowledge into the universe of popular feelings about any item, administration or identity. The blast of Web 2.0 has prompted expanded action in Podcasting, Blogging, Tagging, Contributing to RSS, Social Bookmarking, and Social Networking. Subsequently there has been a sudden increase of enthusiasm for individuals to mine these tremendous assets of information for suppositions. Sentiment analysis or Opinion Mining is mining of sentiment polarities from online social media. In this project we will talk about a procedure which permits use and understanding of twitter information for sentiment analysis. We perform several steps of text pre-processing, and then experiment with multiple classification mechanisms. Using a dataset of 50000 tweets and TFIDF features, we comparison the accuracy obtained using various classifiers for this task. We find that linear SVMs provide us the best accuracy results among the various classifiers tried. Sentiment analysis classifier could be useful for many applications like market analysis of different features of a new product or public opinion for a new movie or speech by a political candidate.

# Introduction
With the recent growth of mobile information systems and the increased availability of smart phones, social media has become a large part of daily life in most societies. This development has entailed the creation of massive amounts of data: data which when analysed can be used to extract valuable information about a variety of subjects.
Sentiment analysis (SA), also known as opinion mining is the process of classifying the emotion conveyed by a text, for example as negative, positive or neutral. The data made available by social media has contributed to a burst of research activity within SA in recent times and a shift in the focus of the field towards this type of data. Information gained from applying SA to social media data has many potential usages, for instance, to help marketers evaluate the success of an ad campaign, to identify how different demographics have received a product release, to predict user behaviour, or to forecast election results. 
A popular social medium is Twitter, a micro-blogging site that allows users to write textual entries of up to 140 characters, commonly referred to as tweets. As of June 2015, Twitter has over 302 million monthly active users according to their homepage, whereof approximately 88 % have their tweets freely readable. Additionally, over 84% of the users also have their location specified in their profiles, enabling the possibility of performing drill-down on geographic locations. Data created by Twitter is made available through Twitter’s API, and represents a realtime information stream of opinionated data. Tweets can be filtered both by location and the time they were published. This has paved the way for a new sub-field of SA: Twitter sentiment analysis (TSA).
Performing natural language processing on textual data from Twitter presents new challenges because of the informal nature of this data. Tweets often contain misspellings, and the constrictive limit of 140 characters encourages slang and abbreviations. Unconventional linguistic means are also used, such as capitalization or elongation of words to show emphasis. Additionally, tweets contain special features like emoticons and hashtags that may have an analytical value. Hashtags are labels used for search and categorization, and are included in the text prepended by a “#”. Emoticons are expressions of emotion, and can either be written as a string of characters e.g., “:-)”, or as a unicode symbol. Finally, if a tweet is a reply or is directed to another Twitter user, mentions can be used by prepending a username with “@”.
The linguistic phenomenon of negation, has been shown to play a significant role in SA. Councill et al.tested a sentiment classifier and found that including their negation classifier provided a 29.5 % improvement in F1 score when classifying positive sentiment, and an 11.4 % improvement when classifying negative sentiment. Kiritchenko et al. [2014] included a sophisticated solution for handling negated terms in their SemEval-2014 entry by creating tweet-specific sentiment lexica containing individual scores for terms in affirmative and negated contexts, but the state-of-the-art systems in TSA still employ a very simple solution for identifying which terms are negated, by marking as negated all words from a negation cue term to the next punctuation symbol.
Twitter as of now has three unique variants of APIs accessible, to be specific the REST API, the Search API, and the Streaming API. With the REST API, engineers can assemble status information and client data; the Search API enables designers to inquiry explicit Twitter content, while the Streaming API can gather Twitter content progressively. Additionally, engineers can blend those APIs to make their very own applications. Subsequently, conclusion examination appears having a solid fundament with the help of monstrous online information. In any case, those kinds of online information have a few imperfections that possibly upset the procedure of slant investigation.
The primary imperfection is that since individuals can unreservedly post their own substance, the nature of their sentiments can't be ensured. For instance, rather than imparting theme related insights, online spammers post spam on gatherings. Some spam are negligible by any stretch of the imagination, while others have immaterial conclusions otherwise called phony sentiments.
The second defect is that ground truth of such online information isn't constantly accessible. A ground truth is progressively like a tag of a specific feeling, showing whether the sentiment is certain, negative, or unbiased. The Stanford Sentiment 140 Tweet Corpus is one of the datasets that has ground truth and is likewise open accessible. The corpus contains 1.6 million machine-labeled Twitter messages.
Ventures discover this zone valuable to examine popular sentiment of their organization furthermore, items, or to examine consumer loyalty. Associations use this data to accumulate criticism about recently discharged items which supplements in enhancing further structures.

# Tools and Methods
# Background Theory 
Sentiment analysis (SA) comprises many concepts common to the whole field of natural language processing in addition to many concepts from machine learning: the most relevant of these are described in this section.
# Machine Learning 
Machine learning has become a cornerstone in the field of SA. Most wellperforming systems incorporate some form of supervised machine learning. Here, we give a description of several machine learning algorithms relevant to the current state-of-the-art in sentiment analysis.


